executable-builder/README.md, before:

# executable-builder

***NOTE: This project is not yet functional!! (However, if you
click the "Exec" icon in the add-on bar, the version in the master
branch ought to allow the user-facing UI to be viewed.)***

Executable Builder is a component of WebAppFind which provides
the functionality to build, in a more customizable manner, executables which
can pass a selected desktop file to a web application for viewing and
optional editing. (The Mac will find the executable if the user right-clicks
"Open with..." over a given desktop file or if the user opts to select the
executable as the default application handling for particular files or files
of a given file extension.)
<!--
TODO: Add when `filetypes.json` reimplemented:

For an example of such WebAppFind behavior customization,
Executable Builder might be used to build an executable which
hard-codes a particular web app as the handler for the clicked-on
file--instead of relying on WebAppFind's behavior of checking for a
protocol handler for the file's type (with the type determined by the
file's extension or, if present, a `filetypes.json` file in the same
directory as the file).
-->

For any WebAppFind executable, one may choose the level of privilege
by which the web app may act on the supplied file (e.g., "view" or "edit").
<!--
TODO: Add when implemented
One may customize how a new tab or window is created, over-ride
preferences, or default the web app display of the opened file in full
screen mode. Advanced users can include additional batch commands or
Firefox command line parameters or pass a custom hard-coded string to
the web app so that it may tweak its behavior accordingly.
-->
<!--
TODO: Add when implemented
The executables can have their own associated icons (which the add-on
can help you to create) to give the feel on the desktop that the
executable (which opens a web app) is as any other app.
-->
<!--
TODO: Add when implemented
By having icons, this lets them show in Windows Explorer, the
start menu, and the task bar.
-->
<!--
TODO: Add when implemented
If one opts to tie this executable to a separate Firefox profile,
this icon will show up in the task bar independent from other
Firefox windows. (If WebAppFind can be adapted to support XULRunner
instead of Firefox, one might be able to get an even more light
weight "executable" environment.)
-->

The executables built by Executable Builder are actually just simple
files working with the command line which pass some additional
instructions to it. In the case of WebAppFind executables, these
will be passing command line instructions to Firefox.

<!--
TODO: Add when implemented
Used in conjunction with Firefox profiles, one will get the benefits
of former projects like Mozilla Prism/Chromeless/WebRunner which
provided web applications as executables with their ability to show
up independently in the task bar, but with the added optional ability
of granting privileged features to web applications
(such as one may get if using Executable Builder/WebAppFind
with AsYouWish functionality) and with the ability to utilize add-ons,
even a separate set of add-ons for each executable (and without
the problem that all of these other executable projects are all
now apparently defunct).
-->

# Command line usage

## Building an AppleScript executable that can be used with "Open with..." to interact with WebAppFind

See the [User Guide](./docs/User-Guide.md)

## Directly interacting with WebAppFind

Similar to the AppleScript creation commands in the
[User Guide](./docs/User-Guide.md) (where relevant), except that `method`
should be `client` (instead of `build-openwith-exec`).

```
node native-app.js --method=client --file="path/to/my/file" --mode=view --binary=true --site=http://example.com --args="--a=1 --b=2"
```

## Creating URL shortcuts

This functionality is not quite WebAppFind-related, but provided as a convenience.

```
node native-app.js --method=urlshortcut --path=/path/to/create.webloc --url="http://example.com"
```

<!--
NOTE: This is not currently working due to restrictions with
[browserAction.openPopup](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/browserAction/openPopup);
it requires a user action to activate

Once the add-on is installed, the following can be used in calls to
Firefox in addition to Firefox's own flags.

- `node native-app.js --method=execbuildopen` - Open the Executable Builder dialog.

It is hoped that additional command line options will be added which
can cover the entire range of functionality available in the UI.
-->

# To-dos for new Executable Builder (in WebAppFind)

1. IMPORTANT: See `execute.js`, `executableResponses.js`, etc. for *other
    todos already under-way*
1. *Remove/adapt to-dos from other add-ons*
    (WebAppFind/filebrowser-enhanced/AsYouWish) as completed in process of
    this add-on
1. As reimplement, *uncomment hidden docs* above

1. *UI*
    1. *Split form into generic and specific sections* (so will allow building of
        executables regardless of *whether used for WebAppFind or not*);
        *dynamically reveal* sections based on 'Open with WebAppFind?'
        radio group selection, hard-coding or not, etc. (as simpler *Wizard*)
    1. Add *copy path to clipboard*
1. Allow sites to advertise (in *`<meta>`*?) a number of file extensions
    (of a certain total limited byte size and number?) which they
    support, so that the following can be done:
    1. Add our format to <https://wiki.whatwg.org/wiki/MetaExtensions>
    1. Have option to change icon when files are available (requires
        (pseudo) content-script)
    1. Bake in a new command-line option to open into whatever the
        current tab is opened to
    1. Command line option to only return without error if the targeted
        site has the `meta` elements (also ensure returning errors
        for other problems).
    1. Give warning if currently opened site doesn't advertise support
        but trying to open in it
    1. Option for trusted sites (as with storage or notifications in
        Chrome?) that are present as a bookmark, with notification
        permissions, etc., to auto-add their file types to "Open with...".
    1. Pre-populate, in the browser action popup, a list of available
        file associations with possible baked in meta-data that can
        be tweaked by the user (e.g., edit could be changed to read-only
        though read-only should probably not be changeable), using favicon if
        no icon specified; ideally, this will show current state, e.g., if
        already associated, if changed, etc.; if no file associations are
        available, only show the option to create one's own executables
        from scratch
    1. Create desktop app (to communicate with native messaging app to use
        `windows` add-on privilege to open a dialog, asking which web
        app (that has previously advertised itself as supporting the
        clicked on file type) the user wishes to open in). If none
        yet exist, provide explanation (and link to, or even parse,
        a wiki to which sites can add their info for discovery?)
        1. Option to disable recording of such data discovered at
            various sites
1. Reimplement ability to *invoke from command line* (though native messaging)
    1. *Command line for ExecutableBuilder UI*: Until web apps support file
        writing to arbitrary locations (WebActivity or new addition to
        WebAppFind?), one can at least treat ExecutableBuilder as itself
        an executable (and be able to bake it into
        an executable with its own icon, profile, etc.); also support other
        commands, so e.g., an AsYouWish application could provide an
        alternative interface to the built-in exec dialog (and trigger-able
        from WebAppFind); see Demo todos below on dog-fooding
        1. Since can't open browser action, just open within some other window
    1. *Expose full API to command line* for building executables
        1. Support additional command line arguments to *open up the executable
            builder dialog from the desktop with initial values* such as
            executable or icon path, desktop/remote file or web app URL,
            etc.; allow command the "Browse" dialog for desktop file to be
            opened via command line or immediately to the document URL
            autocomplete field (so that Executable Builder can easily add
            an add-on bar/toolbar button to go immediately to picking a
            file or URL)
    1. Allow executable builder to *build executables to run itself!*
1. *Profiles*
    1. Profile building
    1. Add AsYouWish (and ExecutableBuilder and WebAppFind) optionally
        to profile folder (or global?) so apps can have
        privileges from any profile! (Ought to be desirable to have easy
        way to share back from one profile to another though in case
        people start building independent executables and then decide
        want to share again so as to allow independent executable)
    1. In place of or in addition to profiles, consider *contextualIdentities*
    1. Profile - Request to *work offline*, use the *profile without asking*,
        *open if FF is not open*.
    1. Conditional logic to *check if `-no-remote`* (preferred is open) and if
        not, open a specific profile or vice versa? (?)
    1. Try *installing WebAppFind and ExecutableBuilder extensions globally* so
        each profile (or multiple profiles--e.g., one profile for each
        WebAppFind method and/or different environments--e.g., multiple tabs
        but only for HTML reading) can access it? (since
        `--install-global-extension` is removed from FF now, should apparently
        use this instead:
        <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Installing_extensions>)
1. Include ability to embed configuration information if WebAppFind
    command line starts to support more configuration options (e.g., *full
    screen mode, or stage of type-detection* algorithm to require or at
    which to begin).
1. Special *mode sources*
    1. Ability to *pass in string* of HTML/JS to the add-on command line to
        execute that instead of a specific file (so that an exe could include
        the launching app and processing within one file)? (removing last?
        advantage of exes beyond allowing file dropping/right-click usage
        and own task bar icons? example: open a specific file, that gets sent
        to a particular eval: protocol which listens for the content and then
        passes it to a script that it dynamically loads
    1. If WebAppFind implements `eval`-like behavior (see its todos for
        more on this possibility), create batch files (also for Linux/Mac)
        which *pass evalable JS files* (or embed JS strings) as a command line
        argument which will be sent to FF for (privileged) evaluation along
        with the optional WebAppFind files on which they are executed.
1. *Features requiring extended privileges*
    1. Ability to *manage previously associated items* (including if added to
        `filebrowser-enhanced`) so that one knows which file types have
        been associated through this add-on
    1. Ability to proposed WebAppFind handle *multiple files on
        right-click* (cycling through arguments)? e.g., to open a group
        and then commit as a group (seems to be no "open with
        option when done this way); pass in *additional files for access*
        (e.g., to save to a config file, to build an icon file in a predictable
        location along with the other file data, etc.); if done by right-click,
        could do in `filebrowser-enhanced` at least
1. *Other executable types*
    1. Option to accept *URL shortcut file for dropping onto* and use its URL
        with hard-baked file params; see `urlshortcut` method for format of
        this file so as to be able to parse it for the URL; for Executable
        Builder, this would be HTML drag-and-drop, but could be AppleScript
        for direct
1. [atyourcommand](https://github.com/brettz9/atyourcommand)
    1. Support *direct integration of commands* into AtYourCommand
1. *Demo* todos
    1. Demo dog-fooding reading/editing our special file type once
        separation-of-concerns/serialize to-do is complete (so it could be
        handled by other apps as with any other WebAppFind file) though
        would need AYW for privileges (as also could do with SVG icons
        when done)
    1. Provide sample batch file or exe; including ones which supply arguments
        based on the current directory's path; the path could determine the
        ultimate path of the to-be-created executable (or icon), a
        hard-coded desktop (or remote) file or web app URL to open

# Windows to-dos

1. Ask Mozilla re: *`-new-instance`* on Windows (if it is supposed to create
    a new separate icon) and whether can add as feature, including for the
    sake of this add-on
1. *Deprecate executables* in WebAppFind when batch approach done.
1. Attempt, implement and document *editor associations* (which apparently
    cannot be set through the normal Windows UI as with "Open With") such
    as allowing a web app to read batch files:
    <http://windowsitpro.com/windows-server/how-can-i-change-editor-used-edit-batchcommand-files>
1. Build a batch file which can be invoked with a document file OR URL so
    that if in the task bar, a *file or URL might be droppable on it*
    (if this is possible to do)
1. *Add to favorites*
1. Open with batch ok for "Open with" but a problem with task bar
    (without tricks); any other reasons for exe over batch? can add to favorites?
    try *drag & drop*
    onto cmd alias to batch (another advantage of executables) and describe
    usage with ExecutableBuilder-created batch files. Can
    use drag-onto-batch approach to pass in file path to Firefox with protocol
    (e.g., for creating and validating but especially the file-path-specific
    view and editing): see
    <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6852833/running-a-batch-script-by-right-clicking-any-file>
    and cf. to drag-and-drop into browser; allow drag-and-drop of files onto
    add-on icon for processing similar to C++-based right-click? Drag files
    onto batch icon as another option?
1. Save to *`SendTo` folder* (see [here](http://superuser.com/a/722699/156958)
    and [here](http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/windows_vista-desktop/how-to-locate-the-sendto-folder-in-vista/78b16711-1135-4eb0-851a-8abae9bfe9ed)
    also for working with folders.
1. *SED file*
    1. Make SED file *more configurable* (and *savable* along with batch?)
    1. If there is any advantage to *expanding SED options*, or if we implement
        some more robust way to handle exe building, e.g., so as to be able to
        include an icon without creating a shortcut, we may expand the current
        UI to handle this.
1. Get code review of C++ file (e.g., `ShellExecuteEx` vs. `CallProcess`
    and `-remote`; other bugs?) and feedback on general approach,
    security concerns, etc. esp. *if batch won't work for needs*

# Appreciation

A special thanks to [Imgen Tata](http://www.pdfbatch.com/) for
fielding Windows questions.

Commit message:

INCOMPLETE:     1. review and test (including webappfind, exec builder, atyourcommand, and asyouwish browser/Node);         1. Ensure AtYourCommand script injected with permissions     2. Chrome support: Profile directory; command line arguments for creating or specifying profiles? Other Chrome to-dos? - AYC work; factoring out Node bridge files by type, Make APIs less Firefox-dependent; copy out of node_modules - Todos

executable-builder/README.md, after:

# executable-builder

***NOTE: This project is not yet functional!! (However, if you
click the "Exec" icon in the add-on bar, the version in the master
branch ought to allow the user-facing UI to be viewed.)***

Executable Builder is a component of WebAppFind which provides
the functionality to build, in a more customizable manner, executables which
can pass a selected desktop file to a web application for viewing and
optional editing. (The Mac will find the executable if the user right-clicks
"Open with..." over a given desktop file or if the user opts to select the
executable as the default application handling for particular files or files
of a given file extension.)
<!--
TODO: Add when `filetypes.json` reimplemented:

For an example of such WebAppFind behavior customization,
Executable Builder might be used to build an executable which
hard-codes a particular web app as the handler for the clicked-on
file--instead of relying on WebAppFind's behavior of checking for a
protocol handler for the file's type (with the type determined by the
file's extension or, if present, a `filetypes.json` file in the same
directory as the file).
-->

For any WebAppFind executable, one may choose the level of privilege
by which the web app may act on the supplied file (e.g., "view" or "edit").
<!--
TODO: Add when implemented
One may customize how a new tab or window is created, over-ride
preferences, or default the web app display of the opened file in full
screen mode. Advanced users can include additional batch commands or
browser command line parameters or pass a custom hard-coded string to
the web app so that it may tweak its behavior accordingly.
-->
<!--
TODO: Add when implemented
The executables can have their own associated icons (which the add-on
can help you to create) to give the feel on the desktop that the
executable (which opens a web app) is as any other app.
-->
<!--
TODO: Add when implemented
By having icons, this lets them show in Windows Explorer, the
start menu, and the task bar.
-->
<!--
TODO: Add when implemented
If one opts to tie this executable to a separate browser profile,
this icon will show up in the task bar independent from other
browser windows. (If WebAppFind can be adapted to support XULRunner
instead of Firefox, one might be able to get an even more light
weight "executable" environment.)
-->

The executables built by Executable Builder are actually just simple
files working with the command line which pass some additional
instructions to it. In the case of WebAppFind executables, these
will be passing command line instructions to the browser.

<!--
TODO: Add when implemented
Used in conjunction with browser profiles, one will get the benefits
of former projects like Mozilla Prism/Chromeless/WebRunner which
provided web applications as executables with their ability to show
up independently in the task bar, but with the added optional ability
of granting privileged features to web applications
(such as one may get if using Executable Builder/WebAppFind
with AsYouWish functionality) and with the ability to utilize add-ons,
even a separate set of add-ons for each executable (and without
the problem that all of these other executable projects are all
now apparently defunct).
-->

# Command line usage

## Building an AppleScript executable that can be used with "Open with..." to interact with WebAppFind

See the [User Guide](./docs/User-Guide.md)

## Directly interacting with WebAppFind

Similar to the AppleScript creation commands in the
[User Guide](./docs/User-Guide.md) (where relevant), except that `method`
should be `client` (instead of `build-openwith-exec`).

```
node native-app.js --method=client --file="path/to/my/file" --mode=view --binary=true --site=http://example.com --args="--a=1 --b=2"
```

## Creating URL shortcuts

This functionality is not quite WebAppFind-related, but provided as a convenience.

```
node native-app.js --method=urlshortcut --path=/path/to/create.webloc --url="http://example.com"
```

<!--
NOTE: This is not currently working due to restrictions with
[browserAction.openPopup](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/browserAction/openPopup);
it requires a user action to activate

Once the add-on is installed, the following can be used in calls to
browser in addition to browser's own flags.

- `node native-app.js --method=execbuildopen` - Open the Executable Builder dialog.

It is hoped that additional command line options will be added which
can cover the entire range of functionality available in the UI.
-->

# To-dos for new Executable Builder (in WebAppFind)

1. IMPORTANT: See `execute.js`, `executableResponses.js`, etc. for *other
    todos already under-way*
1. *Remove/adapt to-dos from other add-ons*
    (WebAppFind/filebrowser-enhanced/AsYouWish) as completed in process of
    this add-on
1. As reimplement, *uncomment hidden docs* above

1. *UI*
    1. *Split form into generic and specific sections* (so will allow building of
        executables regardless of *whether used for WebAppFind or not*);
        *dynamically reveal* sections based on 'Open with WebAppFind?'
        radio group selection, hard-coding or not, etc. (as simpler *Wizard*)
    1. Add *copy path to clipboard*
1. Allow sites to advertise (in *`<meta>`*?) a number of file extensions
    (of a certain total limited byte size and number?) which they
    support, so that the following can be done:
    1. Add our format to <https://wiki.whatwg.org/wiki/MetaExtensions>
    1. Have option to change icon when files are available (requires
        (pseudo) content-script)
    1. Bake in a new command-line option to open into whatever the
        current tab is opened to
    1. Command line option to only return without error if the targeted
        site has the `meta` elements (also ensure returning errors
        for other problems).
    1. Give warning if currently opened site doesn't advertise support
        but trying to open in it
    1. Option for trusted sites (as with storage or notifications in
        Chrome?) that are present as a bookmark, with notification
        permissions, etc., to auto-add their file types to "Open with...".
    1. Pre-populate, in the browser action popup, a list of available
        file associations with possible baked in meta-data that can
        be tweaked by the user (e.g., edit could be changed to read-only
        though read-only should probably not be changeable), using favicon if
        no icon specified; ideally, this will show current state, e.g., if
        already associated, if changed, etc.; if no file associations are
        available, only show the option to create one's own executables
        from scratch
    1. Create desktop app (to communicate with native messaging app to use
        `windows` add-on privilege to open a dialog, asking which web
        app (that has previously advertised itself as supporting the
        clicked on file type) the user wishes to open in). If none
        yet exist, provide explanation (and link to, or even parse,
        a wiki to which sites can add their info for discovery?)
        1. Option to disable recording of such data discovered at
            various sites
1. Reimplement ability to *invoke from command line* (though native messaging)
    1. *Command line for ExecutableBuilder UI*: Until web apps support file
        writing to arbitrary locations (WebActivity or new addition to
        WebAppFind?), one can at least treat ExecutableBuilder as itself
        an executable (and be able to bake it into
        an executable with its own icon, profile, etc.); also support other
        commands, so e.g., an AsYouWish application could provide an
        alternative interface to the built-in exec dialog (and trigger-able
        from WebAppFind); see Demo todos below on dog-fooding
        1. Since can't open browser action, just open within some other window
    1. *Expose full API to command line* for building executables
        1. Support additional command line arguments to *open up the executable
            builder dialog from the desktop with initial values* such as
            executable or icon path, desktop/remote file or web app URL,
            etc.; allow command the "Browse" dialog for desktop file to be
            opened via command line or immediately to the document URL
            autocomplete field (so that Executable Builder can easily add
            an add-on bar/toolbar button to go immediately to picking a
            file or URL)
    1. Allow executable builder to *build executables to run itself!*
1. *Profiles*
    1. Profile building
    1. Add AsYouWish (and ExecutableBuilder and WebAppFind) optionally
        to profile folder (or global?) so apps can have
        privileges from any profile! (Ought to be desirable to have easy
        way to share back from one profile to another though in case
        people start building independent executables and then decide
        want to share again so as to allow independent executable)
    1. In place of or in addition to profiles, consider *contextualIdentities*
    1. Profile - Request to *work offline*, use the *profile without asking*,
        *open if browser is not open*.
    1. Conditional logic to *check if `-no-remote`* (preferred is open) and if
        not, open a specific profile or vice versa? (?)
    1. Try *installing WebAppFind and ExecutableBuilder extensions globally* so
        each profile (or multiple profiles--e.g., one profile for each
        WebAppFind method and/or different environments--e.g., multiple tabs
        but only for HTML reading) can access it? (since
        `--install-global-extension` is removed from Firefox now, should
        apparently use this instead (cross-browser?):
        <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Installing_extensions>)
1. Include ability to embed configuration information if WebAppFind
    command line starts to support more configuration options (e.g., *full
    screen mode, or stage of type-detection* algorithm to require or at
    which to begin).
1. Special *mode sources*
    1. Ability to *pass in string* of HTML/JS to the add-on command line to
        execute that instead of a specific file (so that an exe could include
        the launching app and processing within one file)? (removing last?
        advantage of exes beyond allowing file dropping/right-click usage
        and own task bar icons? example: open a specific file, that gets sent
        to a particular eval: protocol which listens for the content and then
        passes it to a script that it dynamically loads
    1. If WebAppFind implements `eval`-like behavior (see its todos for
        more on this possibility), create batch files (also for Linux/Mac)
        which *pass evalable JS files* (or embed JS strings) as a command line
        argument which will be sent to browser for (privileged) evaluation along
        with the optional WebAppFind files on which they are executed.
1. *Features requiring extended privileges*
    1. Ability to *manage previously associated items* (including if added to
        `filebrowser-enhanced`) so that one knows which file types have
        been associated through this add-on
    1. Ability to proposed WebAppFind handle *multiple files on
        right-click* (cycling through arguments)? e.g., to open a group
        and then commit as a group (seems to be no "open with
        option when done this way); pass in *additional files for access*
        (e.g., to save to a config file, to build an icon file in a predictable
        location along with the other file data, etc.); if done by right-click,
        could do in `filebrowser-enhanced` at least
1. *Other executable types*
    1. Option to accept *URL shortcut file for dropping onto* and use its URL
        with hard-baked file params; see `urlshortcut` method for format of
        this file so as to be able to parse it for the URL; for Executable
        Builder, this would be HTML drag-and-drop, but could be AppleScript
        for direct
1. [atyourcommand](https://github.com/brettz9/atyourcommand)
    1. Support *direct integration of commands* into AtYourCommand
1. *Demo* todos
    1. Demo dog-fooding reading/editing our special file type once
        separation-of-concerns/serialize to-do is complete (so it could be
        handled by other apps as with any other WebAppFind file) though
        would need AYW for privileges (as also could do with SVG icons
        when done)
    1. Provide sample batch file or exe; including ones which supply arguments
        based on the current directory's path; the path could determine the
        ultimate path of the to-be-created executable (or icon), a
        hard-coded desktop (or remote) file or web app URL to open

# Windows to-dos

1. Ask Mozilla re: *`-new-instance`* on Windows (if it is supposed to create
    a new separate icon) and whether can add as feature, including for the
    sake of this add-on
1. *Deprecate executables* in WebAppFind when batch approach done.
1. Attempt, implement and document *editor associations* (which apparently
    cannot be set through the normal Windows UI as with "Open With") such
    as allowing a web app to read batch files:
    <http://windowsitpro.com/windows-server/how-can-i-change-editor-used-edit-batchcommand-files>
1. Build a batch file which can be invoked with a document file OR URL so
    that if in the task bar, a *file or URL might be droppable on it*
    (if this is possible to do)
1. *Add to favorites*
1. Open with batch ok for "Open with" but a problem with task bar
    (without tricks); any other reasons for exe over batch? can add to favorites?
    try *drag & drop*
    onto cmd alias to batch (another advantage of executables) and describe
    usage with ExecutableBuilder-created batch files. Can
    use drag-onto-batch approach to pass in file path to browser with protocol
    (e.g., for creating and validating but especially the file-path-specific
    view and editing): see
    <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6852833/running-a-batch-script-by-right-clicking-any-file>
    and cf. to drag-and-drop into browser; allow drag-and-drop of files onto
    add-on icon for processing similar to C++-based right-click? Drag files
    onto batch icon as another option?
1. Save to *`SendTo` folder* (see [here](http://superuser.com/a/722699/156958)
    and [here](http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/windows_vista-desktop/how-to-locate-the-sendto-folder-in-vista/78b16711-1135-4eb0-851a-8abae9bfe9ed)
    also for working with folders.
1. *SED file*
    1. Make SED file *more configurable* (and *savable* along with batch?)
    1. If there is any advantage to *expanding SED options*, or if we implement
        some more robust way to handle exe building, e.g., so as to be able to
        include an icon without creating a shortcut, we may expand the current
        UI to handle this.
1. Get code review of C++ file (e.g., `ShellExecuteEx` vs. `CallProcess`
    and `-remote`; other bugs?) and feedback on general approach,
    security concerns, etc. esp. *if batch won't work for needs*

# Appreciation

A special thanks to [Imgen Tata](http://www.pdfbatch.com/) for
fielding Windows questions.
