# User guide (for end-users)

*Note that the following options are only necessary if you are not using
the graphical "Exec" toolbarbutton of the [Executable Builder](../executable-builder/README.md)
component of WebAppFind. The Executable Builder component can be used
to associate default file types to (web) applications without your needing
to find the path of these executables as WebAppFind otherwise requires.*

WebAppFind is triggered through command line arguments passed to a
WebExtensions browser (in technical terms, via WebSockets set up by the
native messaging component of the add-on) and handled by the WebAppFind
add-on.

Alternatively, executables may be built which bake in specific data.
This executable building may be done through WebAppFind
itself, whether by its command line or its graphical ExecutableBuilder
component which leverages this command line).

The executables that are built then may either be associated to files
of certain file extensions or content types, or these executables may
themselves be invoked (with fewer arguments) from the command line.

## Building an (AppleScript) executable from command line (`build-openwith-executable`) that can be used with "Open with..." to interact with WebAppFind

In addition to using the graphical Executable Builder (the "Exec" button
in the toolbar of the add-on), one may also build executables from the
command line. This can provide the convenience of not needing to
pass as many arguments to the command line or not using the command line
at all.

The `method` should be "build-openwith-executable". See the "Arguments"
section for the other arguments.

An AppleScript file can be generated by invoking the `native-app`
executable (or script) added by the installer with the arguments below,
allowing one to pass predetermined or run-time parameters through
WebAppFind, along with a local file to be opened by a number of methods
("open with", as a default file association, as a droplet onto which files
are placed (including if placed conveniently on one's dock), command line,
or with a specific file optionally baked into the script).

You may then either follow the instructions in
"Command line usage of executables built by WebAppFind" or follow
"Usage of the executables on your OS desktop"
to use "Open with" or to associate a specific file or all files of a
certain extension with the web app that will be chosen as a result of
running this executable.

Alternatively or in addition, you can drag this file to your Dock,
Favorites, etc. so as to be able to drop files onto it for opening
(or to just click it to open any hard-baked file or to get the file
dialog otherwise).

See [executable-builder/README.md](../executable-builder/README.md) for more.

### Command line usage of executables built by WebAppFind

In place of a local file, if the generated AppleScript is called with
no arguments (including when placed on the dock), a file selector may
pop-up to determine the file whose contents will be sent to your web
applications.

If the AppleScript is invoked on the command line, one can invoke with:

<!--
```bash
open ./webappfind-as.app --args /Users/brett/myFile.txt
```
-->
```bash
osascript ./webappfind-as.app /Users/brett/myFile.txt
```

or to bring up the file selector (assuming the executable includes
this), just:
<!--
```bash
open ./webappfind-as.app
```
-->
```bash
osascript ./webappfind-as.app
```

### Usage of the executables on your OS desktop

The following option is only available if you already have a
WebAppFind-capable executable (e.g., built through ExecutableBuilder or the `build-openwith-executable` command line instruction)
but have not used ExecutableBuilder to associate the app with
"Open with..." or to set the app as the
default application for files of a given type.

You must first install the WebExtensions add-on (and installer) so that
the following steps will work (the add-on has not yet been submitted
to the Add-ons site, so for now, you will have to build the add-on
from source).

1. Right-click on a file and...
    1. If you want to use WebAppFind without disturbing your defaults
        for that file extension, select "Open With"->"Other..." and
        if you want to always open that particular file with WebAppFind,
        you can also check "Always Open With" in the resulting dialog.
        (Alternatively, you can select "Get Info" (`command-I`) and change
        the value in the "Open with" pull-down and then the file can just
        be double-clicked in the future--assuming you did not already use
        [Executable Builder](../executable-builder/README.md) to do this for you.)
        <!--
        Note: on Windows, when available again, the following instructions can be used:

        select "Open with"->"Choose default program..." if present (or if
        not present, open the file and choose "Select a program
        from a list of installed programs") and then make sure "Always use
        the selected program to open this kind of file" is not checked.
        -->
    1. If you always want to use WebAppFind when handling files with the same
        extension as this file (and just be able to double-click such files
        when opening them in the future), you can select "Get Info"
        (`command-I`) and change the value in the "Open with" pull-down and
        then click "Change All.." to apply to all such files of that file
        extension.
        <!--
        TODO: on Windows, when available again, the following instructions can be used:

        click "Properties", then click "Change..." next to
        "Opens with:" in the General tab of the dialog.
        -->
<!--
TODO: on Windows, when available again, the following instructions can be used:
1. Click "Browse".
-->
1. Navigate to an executable built following the instructions in the section
    "Executable builder" <!-- (Or, if
    you prefer, you can use one of the pre-built binaries includes in the `bin`
    folder of this repository, though see the above-mentioned section anyways
    on the differences of functionality in those binaries).-->
1. Select "Ok".
1. If you used "Open with" (as per step 1.1 above), your file should have
    already opened with WebAppFind. If you opted for "Get Info" in step 1
    <!-- TODO: On Windows, once implemented "Properties" -->
    you should now be able to double-click the file (or any file possessing
    the same extension if you followed step 1.2) to open it with WebAppFind.

If an edit permission is granted <!-- (`web+local` protocol) is enabled -->
and open and then disabled in
the same session, it will keep having save access (though within that
window session only). One must currently close any open tabs for that
web application if one no longer wishes to allow access (though as noted
elsewhere in this documentation, the app only has access to the files to
which you granted access).

## Pass data to web app for one-off usage (command line)

In order to pass a file into the add-on (which can use any arguments and its
heuristics to determine the specific website to open and in what manner),
the `native-app.js` file should be invoked with `--method=client` and
optionally with
`--file="..."`, `--mode="view|edit"`, `--site="http://..."`, `--args="..."`.

The available arguments are similar to the executable (AppleScript)
building commands (where relevant, e.g., there is no "baking in" for such
one-off usage), except that `method` should be `client`
(instead of `build-openwith-executable`).

See the "Arguments" section for the other arguments.

### Example

```
node native-app.js --method=client --file="path/to/my/file" --mode=view --binary=true --site=http://example.com --args='{"a":1, "b":2}'
```

(The executable installed by the installer may be referenced in place
of `node native-app.js`, e.g., `~/Library/Application Support/Mozilla/NativeMessagingHosts/native-app`.)

## Arguments (for executable-building or one-off invocation)

- **method** - Required. Must be set to "build-openwith-executable" for building
    executables which bake in the behavior, or must be "client" for one-off passing
    of instructions.
- **executableName** - Name (used in "Open with...")
- **executablePath** - Path for executable.
- **id** - Value for `CFBundleIdentifier`, uniquely identifying app to the OS.
- **file** - Optional hard-baking of a file. If this argument is not included,
    the generated script will check for the presence of an argument to the
    script to serve as the file to pass to the web application. If no argument
    is passed to the *generated script*, its absence will trigger a file
    dialog. Any file will be opened according to the `mode`.
- **string** - Hard-coded string to pass to app (in place of file); if `true`,
    `"true"`, or `"on"`, the string will be accepted as an argument at run-time
    rather than being baked in. The string may be empty in which case,
    this executable/instruction may simply end up opening open a URL rather than
    adding any predefined data to it.
- **mode** - Optional (fundamental) mode for invoking the web app on your
    contents, either "view" (readonly), "edit" (read and write), "shell", or
    "none". Default is "view".
- **binary** - Optional to indicate a program needing to open a file in
    binary mode (as an array), such as may be usable by images,
    sound files, or videos.
    <!--
    Todo: Re-enable when restoring filetypes.json
    The `filetypes.json` file can be used to force "binary" or not for
    the respective view or edit mode.
    -->
- **site** - Baking in of a specific site to invoke with the
    designated file's contents. Currently required. <!--
    Todo: Re-enable following when restoring filetypes.json (and mention `site` only optional)
    Will check for local `filetypes.json`
    otherwise. -->
- **extensions** - Array used for `CFBundleTypeExtensions`; the items are file extensions, e.g., "html".
- **contentTypes** - Array used for `CFBundleTypeOSTypes`; the items are OS content types, e.g., "public.html".
- **extensionsDefaults** - Array of `extension`s to pass to `addOrReplaceExtensionHandler`. See [launchServiceHandlers.js](../launchServiceHandlers.js).
- **contentTypesDefaults** - Array of `contentType`s to pass to `addOrReplaceContentTypeHandler`. See [launchServiceHandlers.js](../launchServiceHandlers.js).
- **args** - Optional JSON object as arguments to pass to the
    web applications `onmessage` listener data object (under `args`).
    Any `customModes` property must be an array and is reserved per [Registered-custom-modes](./Registered-custom-modes.md); its string
    items indicate modes supplementary to the fundamental `mode`
    (e.g., "source" to indicate opening in a mode to view the file type's
    source code as opposed to just viewing its rendered output).
- **log** - Whether to log to stdout
- **filePicker** - Whether to show a file picker
- **fileSelectMessage** - When the generated script does not have a baked-in
    file and no file argument is passed to it, this argument will determine
    the message shown in the resulting file dialog.
- **fileSelectType** - When the generated script does not have a baked-in file
    and no file argument is passed to it, this argument, if present, will have
    the script insist on a particular file type in the resulting file dialog.
    Must be an extension string without the leading period (e.g., "js" for
    ".js" JavaScript files) or a
    [Uniform Type Identifier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Type_Identifier),
    e.g., "public.image" or "com.apple.iwork.pages.sffpages".

<!--
Todo: Re-enable when restoring filetypes.json
## `filetypes.json`

For an explanation of the `filetypes.json` format (e.g., if you wish to tweak
it as a user), see the [Developer-Guide](./Developer-Guide.md).
-->

## Creating URL shortcuts

This functionality is not quite WebAppFind-related, but is provided
as a convenience.

```
node native-app.js --method=urlshortcut --path=/path/to/create.webloc --url="http://example.com"
```

<!--
NOTE: This is not currently working due to restrictions with
[browserAction.openPopup](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/browserAction/openPopup);
it requires a user action to activate

Once the add-on is installed, the following can be used in calls to
browser in addition to browser's own flags.

- `node native-app.js --method=execbuildopen` - Open the Executable Builder dialog.

It is hoped that additional command line options will be added which
can cover the entire range of functionality available in the UI.
-->

## Tools and Comparisons

For tips for using with other tools and comparison to other similar tools,
see [Tools-and-Comparisons](./Tools-and-Comparisons.md).
